# Coronavirus: Dealing with post-pandemic mass unemployment - 6 Minute English

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o2pdhO76ld4

https://hackmd.io/dyOCX_J7Q8qEcM-byoOOow#2-Coronavirus-Dealing-with-post-pandemic-mass-unemployment---6-Minute-English

https://hackmd.io/664XmhZ6Rd2d7E0HQIM0Cw#2-Coronavirus-Dealing-with-post-pandemic-mass-unemployment---6-Minute-English

A 0:07 - 0:22
Hello this is 6 minute English from BBC Learning English. I’m Neil. And I’m Sam. You and I are lucky, Sam, because we can do our jobs remotely, working from home. There are some downsides, though like not being able to meet up with and share ideas with colleagues.

B 0:23 - 0:24
And going out for lunch.

C 0:25 - 0:34
But the cornavirus pandemic has caused millions of people to lose their jobs and forced thousand more out of work temporarily with no idea if their job will still be there when they return.

D 0:35 - 0:45
For those daily workers without savings to pay the rent and feed families, it’s been especially stressful. Each job loss is a potential personak tragedy.

E 0:46 - 0:54
In this programme, we’ll be assessing the post-Covid job landscape and asking whether radical new approach is needed to prevent global mass employment.

F 0:55 - 1:02
We’ll be asking whether one of the smallest, and richest countries, Denmark, might hold the answer.

G 0:55 -1:35
And of course, we’ll be learning some new vocabulary as well. But first it’s time for our quiz question. One man who know a lot about jobs is Brad Smith, president of Microsoft. A comapany employing over 150 thousand workers.

He’s made gloomy predictions about the number of people out of work, but how many people does he predict will be left unemployed this year as a result of the conrnavirus pandemic? Is it a) one quater of a billion people, b) one third of billion people, or c) half a bllion people?

H 1:36 - 1:43
Wow, those numbers do really look gloomy. I’ll say b) one third of a billion people unemployed around the world.

I 1:44 - 2:08
Ok,Sam, we’ll come back later. Now, mass unemplyment, millions people losing their jobs due to the Covid pandemic, has left the world facing an enormous jobs challenge.

Elisabeth Reynolds, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is author of the report, “Worker of the future”. Here she is talking to BBC World Service programme, Business daily, about the current situation.

J 2:09 - 2:23
Well, I think in a short term it does feel like we’re not yet in a place where we can talk about recovery and rebuilding completely, we’re still goona see the ramifications, the impact and the ripple effect of all this for months to come.

K 2:24 - 2:42
We use the expressions in the long term and in a short term to talk about what all happen over a long or short preiod of time. In the short term, over a short period of time, Elisabeth thinks it’s too early to talk about a job’s recovery.

L 2:43 - 2:59
She also warns that we haven’t experienced the full impact or ramifications of the pademic. Like throwing a stone into water, these consequences create a ripple effect, a situation where one event causes a sereies of effects which spread and produce further effects.

M 2:50 - 3:11
According to Elisabeth, the problem is that many of the government measures put in place to support jobs are not sustainable in the long term. She says more radical change is needed.

N 3:12 - 3:18
Of course, big question is, how? One proposed solution is Denish model. This balances citizen’s rights and duties.