The food delivery revolution - 6 Minute English

https://hackmd.io/3JGMNw2DS0uOrd_iFBJ45A?view#2The-food-delivery-revolution---6-Minute-English

https://hackmd.io/4dyVgKIXTJ29pTCEBwyUMg?view#2The-food-delivery-revolution---6-Minute-English

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WHCjv1MRmM

A 0:06 - 0:11
Hello! This is 6 minute English from BBC Learning English. I’m Neil. (And I’m Gerogina).

B 0:13 - 0:19
I’m going to order some takeaway food, Neil. Do you want anything? Maybe a pizza? Fish and Chips? Indian curry?

C 0:20 - 0:25
Hmmm, Takeaway food to eat at home - that’s great idea. Yes, I’ll have a poke bowl, please.

D 0:26 - 0:29
What’s that? It doesn’t sound like typical takeaway food.

E 0:30 - 0:48
It is nowadays, Gerogina. Over the last few years, the explosion of food delivery apps, like Deriverroo and Just Eat has seen a revolution in takeaway food. Today it’s not just pizza and curries being delivered to the people’s front door - there’s a wide range of food dishes and styles from around the world.

F 0:49 - 1:00
And with cafes and pubs closed during lockdown, more and more food chains and restaurants are switching to delivery-only services - takeaways - to bring meals to people who are isolating.

G 1:01 - 1:25
Over the last few weeks, many takeaway companies have seen orders increase dramatically as people find themselves stuck at home due to the Coronavirus pandemic. But what are they choosing to eat? That’s my quiz question for today, Georgina - last year what was Deriveroo’s most ordered dish? Was it a) Hawaiian Poke bowls, b) Cheesburgers, and c) Chicken burritos?

H 1:26 - 1:31
I would have thought it was fish and chips, but I’ll go with b) Chees burguers.

I 1:32 - 1:59
Okay, we’ll find out later if you’re right. One consequence of the increasing popularity of takeaway is something called “dark kitchens”.Unlike apps, such as Deriveroo and Just Eat which connect customers to local takeaways, these digital “dark kitchens” work as just-for-delivery restaurants. Inside, chefs cook in kitchens without waiters, tables or diners, preparing high-quality dishes ready for delivery straight to your home.

J 2:00 - 2:18
One of the first “dark kitchen” operations, Taster, was started by chef Anton Soulier who in 2013 was working for Deliveroo when it was just a tiny company operating only in London. Now he’s in charge of tweleve kitchens catering for customers in London, Paris and Madrid.

K 2:19 - 2:27
Sheila Dillon of BBC Radio 4’s The Food Programme went to the Bethnal Green area of east London to find out more.

L 2:28 - 2:56
When you go on the Taster website, the restaurant names are virtual, all of them sold as “designed for delivery” by Taster. What that mean is all the menus, drawn up by serious chefs are designed to travel well, chosen so they’ll be warm, retain the texure and won’t look like a dog’s dinner when they come off the back of a bike. So strangely the delivery, the bike has become a shaper of the foods we eat.

M 2:57 - 3:04
All the restaurants on Taster are virtual - existing online and created by computers to appear like the real thing.

N 3:05 - 3:14
Chef cooks dishes using recipes and ingredients designed to travel well - be transported a long way without being damaged or their quality being spoiled.

O 3:15 - 3:23
That’s to avoid the takeaway food ending up like a dog’s dinner - an informal way to say something that looks messy or has been very badly done.

P 3:24 - 3:43
Usually the takeaways are transported in a box on the back of a delivery cyclist who rushes them from the kitchen to the customer’s home. It’s a very modern way of eating, which Sheila thinks has become a shaper of the food we eat - meaning it has a strong influence on how a situation develops.

Q 3:44 - 3:54
However, some are worried that the increase in takeaways and delivery-only food means people are losing basic cooking skills. It’s something that Tasty boss Anton has noted too.

R 3:55 - 4:15
There is a strong underlying trend that maybe, you know, in twenty, thirty years people won’t have kitchens - and it’s so already happening in the US for example. I love cooking. It’s one of my passion but I’m rarely doing it - occasionally on Sundays and everything as it’s almost going to become a weekend hobby.

S 4:16 - 4:27
People choosing to eat takeaways instead of cooking at home has become an undelying trend - a general development in how people behave which is real but not immediately obvious.



