Coronavirus vs other pandemics - 6 Minute English

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjVd228S-yQ

https://hackmd.io/YCXgdyReQx2RC67tQRL0kw#2-Coronavirus-vs-other-pandemics---6-Minute-English

A 0:06 - 0:12
Hello. This is 6 minute English from BBC Learning English. I’m Neil.(And I’m Georigina.)

B 0:13 - 0:21
I’ve really had enough of this coronavirus, Georgina! People getting sick, losing their jobs and to top it off, the pubs in some places are closed!

C 0:22 - 0:37
I know it’s bad, Neil. But compared to historical pandemics like the Spanish flu and economic crises like the Great Depression. Coronavirus isn’t accually so bad. You’ve got to look at the big picture - the long term, overall view of a complex situation.

D 0:38 - 0:42
Hmmm, somehow that’s not very comforting, Georgina. But tell me more.

E 0:43 - 1:03
Well, we’ve heard lots from politicians and scientists about the spread of coronavirus, but a historian’s view might give us fresh a look at bigger picture - and maybe a more helpful point of view. So in this programme, we’ll be hearing from historian, Peter Frankopan, author of bestselling book, The Silk Roads.

F 1:04 - 1:09
Ah, the title of that book, The Silk Road, reminds me of my quiz question, Georgina. Are you ready to have a go?

G 1:10 - 1:16
I’ll try, Neil. But the only thing I know about the Silk Roads is that they were ancient routes along which people travelled the earth.

1. “along which”
Can you replace this “along which” with “where”?

H 1:17 - 1:38
Very good, Georgina! Not just people but also ideas, religions, languages and diseases travelled from place to place along these ancient roads. But where exactly did the Silk Roads run? That’s my quiz question. Was it a) from South America to Europe, b) from Africa to Asia, or c) Asia to Europe?

I 1:39 - 1:43
Well, since the current pandemic came from Wuhan, I’ll say c) from Asia to Europe.

J 1:44 - 1:58
OK, Georigina! We’ll find out later if that’s right. What’s certain is that disease passing from place to place and from animals to human is nothing new. Listen to historian, Peter Frankopan, being interviewed for the BBC programmes, HARD TALK.

K 1:59 - 2:02
See if you can hear the reason he gives for how diseases are spread.

L 2:03 - 2:35
Well, it’s a fairly predictable thing a historian would say but change and widespread diseases are nothing new. Our ancestors all lived through big pandemics, some of them which were much more lethal than coronavirus.

And one of the products of living together in high-density populations, going back as far as historical records go, is you find there are transitions of disease from animals to human beings and they inflict damage.

And that damage typically you measure in mortality rates but then the economic and social consequences of disease. There’s a lot of examples in history to learn from.

M 2:36 - 2:42
Compared to coronavirus, other big pandemic history have been much more lethal - dangerous enough to cause death.

N 2:43 - 2:59
One reason Peter gives for this is the high-density populations, meaning people living together in bulidings very close to one another. In older days this included living together with animals, making the transmissions of disease to human much easier.

O 3:00 - 3:04
Right, Georgina, like the flea-infested rats which spread the plague across Europe in the Middle Ages.

P 3:05 - 3:11
But times change and today most people live in very different ways from people living centuries ago.

Q 3:12 - 3:23
So how can we explain the spread of cornavirus pandemic in 2020? And why have some countries been able to deal with it so much better than others. Here’s Peter Frankopan again, talking on the BBC, HRAD TALK.

R 3:24 - 3:25
Listen and see if you can spot his answer.

S 3:26 - 3:52
Well, your geographical position in the world matters - if you’re geograpically peripheral like Scandinavia or New Zealand then you have a different dose, a different level of connectivity with the rest of the world.

If you’re a country like the UK which is the centre of the global flight routes, then the incidence of people going backwards and forwards in and out of your country - you’re going to spread and catch much quicker.

The scorecard is very mixed and there’ve been some democratic systems that have been extremely resilient and robust at anitipating it and some that have got it wrong.

T 3:53 - 4:01
According to Peter, countries which is geographically peripheral - at the periphery or edge of things, instead of at the center, are less at the risk.

U 4:02 - 4:15
The UK, on the other hand, is at the centre of global flight routes - the connecting flight paths used by airplanes. Visiting air passengers who spread the diasease are one of the reasons behinds Britain’s dose of Coronavirus.

V 4:16 - 4:19
Here, dose is used as an informal way of saying an unpleasant experience.

W 4:20 - 4:32
So from historical view point, this current pandemic doesn’t seem so bad - far fewer people have died than in previous pandemics and with the arrival of vaccine, the end is almost in sight.

X 4:33 - 4:42
Hmm, I guess so, Georgina, but for now at least the pubs are still closed in some places. Anyway, it was interesting to hear how diseases have been spreading since antient times.

Y 4:43 - 4:47
On routes like the Silk Roda, you mean? So what was the answer to your question, Neil? Was I right?

Z 4:48 - 5:01
You said anitient Silk Roads ran, c) from Asia to Eutope, which was correct! They ran from Japan and the Far East through Asia and Middle East, bringing trade and spices as well as new ideas and languages to Europe.

AA 5:02 - 5:08
Sounds like another example of looking at the bigger picture - the long-term, overall view of a complex situation.

AB 5:09 - 5:15
Let’s recap the other vocabulary too. Diseases can be lethal - extremely dangerous even causing death.

AC 5:16 - 5:19
A high-density population is a population living very closely together.

AD 5:20 - 5:27
Peripheral countries may be less at the risk from pandemic because they are the preiphery or edge of events, instead of centre.

AE 5:28 - 5:37
So somewhere with fewer flight routes - the connecting pathways followed by airplanes might get a less serious dose - or unpleasant experience, of coronavirus.

AF 5:38 - 5:45
Well, I hope this experience hasn’t been to unpleasant and you get a chance to use some of this vocubulary chatting your friends about trending stories and news.

AG 5:46 - 5:57
And if you like topical discussions and want to learn how to use vocabulary found in headlines, why not check out our News Reviews podcast? Remember to join us again soon at 6 minute English.

AH 5:58 - 6:06
And to download our free app from your usual app stores so you can follow BBC Leraning English, we’re all over social media as well. Goood bye for now!(Bye)