Do you have a second job? 6 Minute English

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVHePsQLa3w

https://hackmd.io/CQj3WqMEQaqvgXZfOrPbJg?view#2-Do-you-have-a-second-job-6-Minute-English

https://hackmd.io/UtZ_JOG8SNKBAIimRJ_CSg#2-Do-you-have-a-second-job-6-Minute-English

A. 0:06 - 0:23
Hello and welcome to 6 minute English. I’m Neil. This is the programme where in just 6 minutes we discuss interesting topic and teach some related English vocabulary. Joining me to do this is Rob. (Hello) Now Rob, we know your main job is to work here at BBC Learning English. But do you have a second job?

B 0:24 - 0:33
There’s no time for two jobs, Neil, but if there was, I think I’d take photographs and sell them. I do love photography, so I might as well make some money from it.

C 0:34 - 0:41
Good thinking, Rob! And having second job, particularly one that involoves using your skills and allowed you to follow your intersets, is so called a side hustle.

D 0:42 - 0:48
Yes, a side hustle. It’s something more and more of us involoved with these days. And that’s what we’ll be talking about shortly.

E 0:49 - 1:09
Well, my side hustle should be quiz master, because I’m always asking questions and today is no exception. According to the employees rating website Glassdoor, which job is thought be the best to have in the UK this year? Is it a) a software engineer, b) a teacher, or c) an audit mananegr?

F 1:10 - 1:13
Hmm, well, I suspect b) a teacher.

G 1:14 - 1:28
Well, you’ll just have to wait until the end of the programme to find out. But let’s talk more about side hustles - or secaond job. For some people, having two jobs is a necessity - a way to make ends meet. That means having just enough money to pay for the things you need.

H 1:30 - 1:36
That’s true but it now seems that more people want to put their skills and passions into practice to make extra money.

I 1:37 - 2:10
According to research by Henley Business School, around one in four workers run at least one side-hustle business, half of which were started in past two years. Those aged 25 to 34 are most likely to be involoved with 37% thought to run a sideline of some kind. A sideline also describes an extra job you do alongside your main job. BBC Radio 5 live spoke to someone whose side-hustle was so satisfing that it turned into her day job. Here is Elspeth Jachson, funder of Ragged life to explain why.

J 2:11 - 2:40
It’s different environment entirely because you’re leaving essentially a very regular wage that you’d get the same amount in month after month, you can put aside the savings, the same amount every month and you have that certain amount of security. But now I don’t think I could go back to one of these big companies because you’d essentially be sacrificing the flexibility, which is something I’ve become very accustomed to now.

K 2:41 - 2:50
Things have worked out well for Elspeth. But there were risks - for example, leaving behind the security - a safety of a regular job and a regular income.

L 2:51 - 3:03
Elspeth liked making rag rugs. This has given her flexibility to her life and returning to work at a big company would be sacrificing that. That means “giving something up or going without it.”

M 3:04 - 3:11
And for Elspeth, her side hustle has become to full time job and she’s become accustomed to her lifestyle. It’s become familiar or normal.

N 3:12 - 3:26
The BBC also spoke to Becci Mae Ford, who works some of the time for a telecommunications company to pay the bill, but spends the rest of her time developing her crafting company Ellbie Co. How did she find having two jobs?

O 3:27 - 3:44
I think it just gives me creative balance, and obviously working for the telecoms firm, it gets me out the house and it gets me to meet people in a social environment. It can be difficult to juggle the two though definitely. It’s definitely a grind. It’s a lot harder than people think it’s going to be.

P 3:45 - 4:00
So, Becci implied that it’s not always easy to have a side hustle. The benefit for her is the creative balance - a good mix of doing office-based work, regular tasks and a routine with working creatively, making things and getting pleasure from it.

Q 4:01 - 4:13
But juggling or balancing these two things is difficult and she described her side hustle as sometimes being grind - hard work, tiring and occationarlly boring.
But overall, it does make her happy.

R 4:14 - 4:34
Now something that would make me happy is to give you the answer to today’s quiz question. Earlier I asked you, accroding to the employees rating website, Glassdoor, which job is thought to be the best to have in the UK this year? Is it a) a software enginner, b) a teacher, or c) an audit manager?

S 4:35 - 4:38
Yes and I said b) a teacher - always the best job in the world.

T 4:39 - 5:02
Sadly not, Rob! Apparently, it is c) an audit manager. That is considered to be the best job to have this year. Audit managers are responsible for organising and overseeing internal audits. The result was based on three factors : average annual base salary, the current number of job openings and job satifaction,according to rating shared by employees on the website over the 12th months.

U 5:03 - 5:13
So, sounds like interesting job for a side-hustle, but before I head off for a career change, let’s remind ourselves of the main vocabulary we’ve discussed, starting with “to make ends meet”.

V 5:14 - 5:18
When we make ends meet, we have just enough money to pay for the things we need.

W 5:19 - 5:23
Next, we mentioned a sideline, which describes an extra job you do is alongside your main job.

X 5:24 - 5:29
Then we had sacrificing. That means ‘giving up something important’ or ‘going without something’.

Y 5:30 - 5:37
Accustomed is a word to mean ‘unusual’ or ‘normal’. If you got accustomed to doing something, it becomes normal way of doing it - it become familiar.

Z 5:38 - 5:45
We also talked about the expressions, ‘creative balance’. That describes getting the best mix doing creative and uncreative tasks.

AA 5:46 - 5:53
And finally, ‘grind’ describes doing something that is tiring, dificults, sometimes boring and involves lots of effort.

AB 5:54 - 6:04
Well, this programme has not been grind, Rob. It’s been 6 minutes of pleasure. Don’t forget you can learn more English with us on our website, bbclearningenglish.com. (Bye for now) Bye.


